Google Earth AI — Google AI Skip to main content Discover how AI can be helpful, from work to everyday life Explore products Get started Experience AI-first products Chat with Gemini Your personal, proactive AI assistant AI Mode Ask anything, any way, in Google Search NotebookLM Your research and thinking partner Flow Your AI creative studio Try AI features Ask Maps Google Maps Live conversations Gemini on Android Ask Photos Google Photos Help me write Google Workspace Browse with built-in AI Chrome Try our latest experiments Project Astra Your universal AI assistant Project Mariner Explore the future of in-browser agents Find more on Google Labs Build with Google AI Explore our full AI stack Start building Get started building with our next-gen AI models and tools Google AI Studio Build with our latest AI models Vertex AI A platform built for enterprise Gemini API Integrate our AI models into your apps Google Antigravity Our agentic development platform Discover models Build with cutting-edge Google DeepMind models Gemini Learn, build, and plan anything Nano Banana Create and edit detailed images Gemma Build responsible AI applications at scale Veo Generate cinematic video with audio Lyria Generate high fidelity music and audio Code with AI assistance Accelerate development with integrated AI code assistance Gemini CLI Colab Jules Gemini Code Assist Android Studio Chrome DevTools Tackling the most challenging problems in computer science Explore research Frontier AI Building the future of AI-powered products and scientific discovery Foundational ML Exploring the theory and application of ML in language, speech and more Health Transforming healthcare and medicine with AI Quantum AI Building best-in-class quantum computing Science Enabling scientific innovation in biology, chemistry, physics, and earth science Sustainability Driving sustainable innovation through technology Earth AI Taking action on planetary info We’re building and deploying AI responsibly Responsibility and safety Ensuring AI safety through proactive security, even against evolving threats Policy Our AI policy perspectives, priorities, and working alongside partners Building for everyone Working together to build AI that’s helpful for everyone We're committed to improving the lives of as many people as possible Why AI Boldly pursued, AI transforms lives globally when built and used responsibly Our AI Journey For over 20 years, Google has worked to make AI helpful for everyone AI Principles Our commitment to developing technology responsibly For organizations Our AI tools enable your organization to work smarter and make better decisions Learn AI Skills Learn essential AI skills through courses, certifications, and more Products Discover how AI can be helpful, from work to everyday life Explore products Get started Experience AI-first products Chat with Gemini Your personal, proactive AI assistant AI Mode Ask anything, any way, in Google Search NotebookLM Your research and thinking partner Flow Your AI creative studio Try AI features Ask Maps Google Maps Live conversations Gemini on Android Ask Photos Google Photos Help me write Google Workspace Browse with built-in AI Chrome Try our latest experiments Project Astra Your universal AI assistant Project Mariner Explore the future of in-browser agents Find more on Google Labs Build Build with Google AI Explore our full AI stack Start building Get started building with our next-gen AI models and tools Google AI Studio Build with our latest AI models Vertex AI A platform built for enterprise Gemini API Integrate our AI models into your apps Google Antigravity Our agentic development platform Discover models Build with cutting-edge Google DeepMind models Gemini Learn, build, and plan anything Nano Banana Create and edit detailed images Gemma Build responsible AI applications at scale Veo Generate cinematic video with audio Lyria Generate high fidelity music and audio Code with AI assistance Accelerate development with integrated AI code assistance Gemini CLI Colab Jules Gemini Code Assist Android Studio Chrome DevTools Research Tackling the most challenging problems in computer science Explore research Frontier AI Building the future of AI-powered products and scientific discovery Foundational ML Exploring the theory and application of ML in language, speech and more Health Transforming healthcare and medicine with AI Quantum AI Building best-in-class quantum computing Science Enabling scientific innovation in biology, chemistry, physics, and earth science Sustainability Driving sustainable innovation through technology Earth AI Taking action on planetary info Responsibility We’re building and deploying AI responsibly Responsibility and safety Ensuring AI safety through proactive security, even against evolving threats Policy Our AI policy perspectives, priorities, and working alongside partners Building for everyone Working together to build AI that’s helpful for everyone Societal impact About We're committed to improving the lives of as many people as possible Why AI Boldly pursued, AI transforms lives globally when built and used responsibly Our AI Journey For over 20 years, Google has worked to make AI helpful for everyone AI Principles Our commitment to developing technology responsibly For organizations Our AI tools enable your organization to work smarter and make better decisions Learn AI Skills Learn essential AI skills through courses, certifications, and more Try Gemini Google AI AI Google AI Learn about all our AI Google DeepMind Explore the frontier of AI Google Labs Try our AI experiments Google Research Explore our research Products and apps Gemini app Chat with Gemini Google AI Studio Build with our next-gen AI models Google Antigravity Our agentic development platform Products Build Research Responsibility Societal impact About Try Gemini GOOGLE EARTH AI Transform planetary information into actionable intelligence Built on years of modeling the world and Gemini’s advanced reasoning, Earth AI is helping enterprises, nonprofits, and cities with everything from environmental monitoring to disaster response. Breakthroughs in understanding the Earth that previously required complex analytics and years of iteration are now made possible in a matter of minutes. You Ask, The Earth Answers Earth AI models power features used by billions, and provide actionable insights in Google Earth, Google Maps Platform, and Google Cloud. Slide 1 of 4 Where are all the storm drains within 50 meters of public schools in Red Hook, Brooklyn? Try in Google Earth How can AI help to better predict the path and intensity of cyclones? Explore in Weather Lab Your browser does not support the video tag. Which communities within the Democratic Republic of Congo are most at risk for cholera outbreaks? See result Which global mangrove forests are most similar to mangroves in the Mekong delta in Vietnam? See result The global partners forging the future with Earth AI Our partners have been using Earth AI models to help with critical business decision making for multiple years. These featured partners are using the latest Earth AI models and datasets. Slide 1 of 4 Transforming planetary data into actionable intelligence with Google Earth AI See how Google Earth AI unites geospatial models with Gemini-powered reasoning. Learn how partners like Planet, Airbus, Deloitte, Boston Children's Hospital, and GiveDirectly use Earth AI to move from manual image analysis to instant, high-value insights. The platform accelerates analysis, enhances disaster preparedness, and drives better public health and business decisions worldwide. From satellite imagery to queryable insights with Planet Labs and Airbus Leading satellite providers like Planet Labs, and Airbus leverage Google's Remote Sensing Foundation Models (RSFM) as part of a trusted tester program. This collaboration accelerates their AI development, enabling instantaneous object detection and image search using natural language. Discover how Imagery models unlock unparalleled planetary monitoring, massive scale change detection, and accelerated map-making capabilities. Solving global population challenges with geospatial AI with WPP, Deloitte and Boston Children's Hospital Discover how Google Earth AI and its foundation models power partners like WPP, Deloitte, and Boston Children's Hospital. Learn how they use Earth AI to tackle multi-dimensional problems, from marketing and urban planning to predicting public health risks and targeting life-saving interventions. Google Earth AI gives decision-makers actionable insights at an unprecedented scale and speed. Geospatial AI for governments and crisis response with McGill and Partners and GiveDirectly See how Google Earth AI enables a faster, more effective response. Bellwether, an X moonshot, is using Earth AI to provide insurance broker McGill and Partners predictive analysis of property damage before a storm strikes, which helps their clients pay claims faster so homeowners can start rebuilding sooner — saving them time, money and stress. Humanitarian partner GiveDirectly uses the Google Flood Hub for anticipatory cash assistance before floods hit. Slide 1 of 20 For years, we’ve been building models about the world, including floods, wildfires, air quality, and cyclones, providing trusted information to billions of people and organizations. For example, our flood forecasting — information now covering more than two billion people — provides life-saving forecasts before significant river floods. Explore geospatial analytics on Google Cloud's Vertex AI platform To deliver actionable, location-aware intelligence, Vertex AI is designed for native grounding using Google Maps' unique, high-fidelity data. This capability instantly contextualizes your AI applications and agents with information on over 250 million places, providing the local and geospatial insights necessary for accurate modeling, resilient operations, and informed decision-making in the physical world. Try in Vertex AI Your browser does not support the video tag. Imagery Unifying remote sensing data with cutting-edge AI for diverse geospatial analysis and forecasting, from land use to object detection. Slide 1 of 8 Search the earth using natural language with Imagery models on Vertex AI Specialized AI models enable finding objects, classifying scenes or monitoring changes across Earth's observation imagery. Query the Earth with natural language and significantly accelerate remote sensing workflows, such as identifying where harmful algae is blooming in order to monitor drinking water supply, giving authorities time to issue warnings or shut down water utilities. Learn more Try in Vertex AI AlphaEarth Foundations helps map our planet in unprecedented detail AlphaEarth Foundations integrates petabytes of Earth observation data to generate a unified representation, empowering users to perform faster, more accurate geospatial analyses like change detection, map segmentation and classification. Learn more Explore the data in Earth Engine Searching satellite imagery with AI Gemini capabilities in Google Earth now integrate new Earth AI models, allowing users to instantly find objects and discover patterns across satellite imagery. This experimental feature streamlines environmental monitoring—such as spotting dried rivers or algae blooms—for Professional and Professional Advanced users in the US. Learn more Put the globe to work with Google Earth Create, analyze, and collaborate with Google's unique imagery and global knowledge, cloud infrastructure, and community-scale generative building and solar designs. Make faster, informed decisions in early-stage projects—no GIS training required. Try in Google Earth Elevating Vantor’s AI-powered analytics Vantor is integrating Google Earth AI imagery models into its Tensorglobe platform to help government and commercial organizations respond to a rapidly changing world with greater clarity and confidence. By combining Earth AI imagery foundation models with Vantor’s AI-ready spatial foundation—built on a 20+ year satellite imagery archive and their advanced global 2D and 3D data—organizations can fuse vast volumes of sovereign and third-party imagery into timely, actionable insight. Learn more Forecasting deforestation risk ForestCast, the first deep learning benchmark for proactive deforestation risk forecasting, is a model that utilizes pure satellite data to predict future forest loss accurately and at scale, overcoming the limitations of older methods that relied on inconsistent, region-specific input maps. This marks a fundamental shift from monitoring past losses to actively predicting and preventing future environmental threats. Learn more Mapping natural forests with AI Natural Forests of the World 2020, an AI-powered baseline map for deforestation and degradation monitoring. This critical resource achieves best-in-class accuracy at 10-meter resolution in distinguishing natural forests from other tree cover, aiding companies (e.g., for EUDR compliance), governments, and conservation groups worldwide. Learn more Your browser does not support the video tag. Open Buildings uses AI to put everyone on the map This open dataset maps 1.8 billion buildings in the Global South and includes changes in development from the years 2016-2023. It uses AI to super-resolve and extract building footprints and heights from Sentinel-2 satellite imagery. For example, it's allowed us to greatly expand coverage of our Solar API. Learn more Explore the data Environment Harnessing AI to deliver actionable, high-resolution weather and climate insights, from real-time forecasts to disaster response and policy impact. Slide 1 of 10 Using AI to make critical flood forecasting information universally accessible Our AI flood forecast provides reliable riverine flood warnings up to seven days. Flood Hub currently covers river basins in over 100 countries worldwide, providing critical flood forecasting to a population of 700M people. Learn more Explore Flood Hub Forecasting global weather with AI WeatherNext is an AI-powered ensemble forecasting model for global weather prediction. It utilizes a novel Functional Generative Network architecture, which enables it to generate forecasts 8x faster and with resolution up to 1-hour. This state-of-the-art model delivers more accurate global weather predictions - including for extreme weather events - aiding enterprises, governments, and researchers worldwide. Learn more Try now in Big Query and Earth Engine Better tropical cyclone predictions with AI Weather Lab features our latest experimental AI-based tropical cyclone model, based on stochastic neural networks. This model can predict a cyclone’s formation, track, intensity, size and shape — generating 50 possible scenarios, up to 15 days ahead. Learn more Explore Weather Lab Accelerating wildlife image classification Camera traps generate vast amounts of data, but manually identifying millions of wildlife photos can take decades and creates a major bottleneck for conservation research. One year after its open-source release, the SpeciesNet model is empowering researchers to classify nearly 2,500 animal species—processing massive datasets from the savannas of Tanzania to the forests of Idaho—streamlining global biodiversity monitoring and helping conservationists quickly translate raw imagery into actionable insights to protect threatened populations. Learn more Predicting urban flash flood events For years, a lack of high-fidelity historical data prevented AI models from predicting flash floods before they happen. Groundsource is a new AI-powered methodology that transforms public information into a high-quality record of historical disaster data – starting with flash floods in urban areas. Groundsource uses Gemini to analyze decades of public reports and identifies over 2.6 million historical flood events spanning more than 150 countries. It then used Google Maps to determine precise geographic boundaries for each event to create a dataset focused on flash floods. Using this dataset we trained a new model now available on Google’s Flood Hub to predict flash floods in urban areas up to 24 hours in advance, to help ensure no one is surprised by a natural disaster. Learn more Transforming conservation efforts Google’s novel tools aimed at helping us better understand and protect Earth's biosphere include a benchmark dataset for high-resolution deforestation risk prediction, a new approach for species range mapping at unprecedented scale, and Perch 2.0, a state-of-the-art bioacoustics model for automated ecosystem health monitoring and identifying endangered species. Learn more NeuralGCM for improved atmospheric simulations NeuralGCM is a hybrid atmospheric model combining traditional physics with machine learning for faster, accurate weather simulations. By using physical laws for large-scale dynamics and ML for small-scale phenomena, it produces high-quality forecasts at a fraction of the cost. This open-source model significantly increases accessibility for researchers. Learn more NeuralGCM in action Air quality data and insights to help people reduce their exposure to pollution Powering air quality information for millions of users on Google Search and Maps, our advanced Air Quality API uses AI to fuse satellite, weather, and traffic data, delivering highly accurate, real-time Air Quality Index (AQI) forecasts at a 500-meter global resolution. Learn more Limit the risks of exposure to allergenic pollen Our Pollen API can be used to help people limit the risks of exposure to allergenic pollen and make better informed daily decisions. The pollen model combines AI with physical and biological modeling to generate a 5-day high-resolution forecast across over 65 countries. The model is trained to recognize the exact location and density of specific tree, grass and weed species to predict the Universal Pollen Index (UPI). Learn more Provide accurate wildfires information to affected communities and fire authorities We use satellite imagery and ML to detect and track wildfires, making information available via Google Search and Maps, informing affected communities and helping fire authorities take action, and developing a simulator to generate data in a range of wildfire scenarios. Learn more View in Maps Population Unifying search trends, demographics, business, mobility and geospatial data with AI to understand the complex interplay of populations and places. Slide 1 of 5 Assessing MMR vaccination coverage gaps Measles outbreaks are rising, but routine vaccination data are often delayed and too coarse to pinpoint local gaps. Researchers at Harvard, Mount Sinai, and Boston Children’s Hospital combined survey data with Google’s Population Dynamics Foundation Model (PDFM) to produce “superresolution” estimates of MMR coverage among young children—at much finer geographic scales than standard reporting, down to the ZIP-code level—revealing clusters of undervaccination that align with recent outbreaks and helping public health teams prioritize locally targeted outreach and prevention efforts. Learn more De-risking city investments with Traffic Simulation API Traffic Simulation API leverages AI advancements in measurement, simulation, and optimization to provide transportation agencies with powerful tools for baseline simulation of city networks, allowing them to modify and test the network-wide impact of proposed infrastructure changes, as well as temporary disruptions such as lane or road closures due to maintenance, mass events, or crashes. It uses high-fidelity modeling to provide granular results on vehicle counts and average speeds, giving users detailed data on the cascading effects across the entire road network to de-risk investments. Learn more Population Dynamics Foundations for Places Insights Gain unique insights into population characteristics and their environmental interplay. Population Dynamics Foundations for Places Insights reveals the bigger picture: how humans thrive, influenced by their surroundings, and how these trends and patterns evolve over time. Express interest Insights on the dynamics of human behavior across the planet Population Dynamics Foundations distills data about human behavior and our interactions with the environment into concise, analysis-ready embeddings. Now expanded to include more countries and capture changes over time, Population Dynamics Foundations insights are enhancing applications including disease modeling, mapping vulnerable communities and location-based marketing. Learn more Advancing urban transportation with Mobility AI Mobility AI leverages AI advancements in measurement, simulation, and optimization to provide transportation agencies with powerful tools for data-driven policy making, traffic management, and continuous monitoring of urban transportation systems. Powering Roads Management Insights on Google Maps Platform. Learn more Introducing Geospatial Reasoning Geospatial Reasoning is making it possible to tackle multimodal Earth AI challenges. Gemini-powered agents enable developers, data analysts, and scientists to integrate Google’s advanced Earth AI models with their own models and datasets. Now you can make natural language queries about the physical world and get deep, actionable insights, grounded in real-world understanding. Learn more Express interest Powering features that billions rely on across Google When major climate events strike, Google products like Search and Maps help billions of people make critical decisions to stay safe. Nowcasting brings AI-powered weather forecasts to Google Search MetNet, an AI nowcasting model, predicts precipitation with high accuracy via satellite data. This fills gaps in radar coverage, providing better rain predictions on Google Search. Try it now Your browser does not support the video tag. Enabling a more immersive, intuitive Google Maps experience With Immersive View, you’re able to experience what a neighborhood, landmark, restaurant or popular venue is like — and even feel like you’re right there before you ever leave the house. So whether you’re traveling somewhere new or scoping out hidden local gems, Immersive View helps you make the most informed decisions before you go. Learn more Informing communities with early storm forecasts and alerts People turn to Google Search and Maps in times of crises, to find early warnings of extreme weather events. Crisis notification cards appear on Google Maps for those near the impacted area, directing to a hurricane forecast of the storm’s trajectory along with information about what time it’s likely to hit certain areas. Learn more In 2024, four of our geospatial products—Google Earth, Solar API, fuel-efficient routing in Google Maps, and Green Light—enabled individuals, cities, and other partners to collectively reduce an estimated 18 million metric tons of GHG emissions (tCO2e), roughly equivalent to the emissions from the annual energy use of over 2.4 million U.S. homes.¹ ¹To estimate aggregate enabled emissions reductions, we first estimated annual reductions for the products individually (Google Earth Pro, Solar API, fuel-efficient routing, and Green Light) and then combined the totals. For details about the individual calculation methodologies, refer to Google’s 2025 Environmental Report. For equivalencies, we used the "Greenhouse Gas Equivalencies Calculator,” U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, November 2024, accessed October 2025. Follow us Making AI helpful for everyone Products Discover how AI can be helpful, from work to everyday life For knowledge For creativity For productivity For students For experimenting Explore products Build Get started building with cutting-edge AI models and tools Start building Code with AI assistance Leverage frameworks and tools Build with Google AI Research Tackling the most challenging problems in computer science Health Science Sustainability Explore more research Responsibility We’re building and deploying AI responsibly Responsibility and safety Policy Building for everyone Social impact About We're committed to improving the lives of as many people as possible Why AI Our AI Journey AI Principles For organizations Learn AI Skills About Google Google Products Privacy Terms Cookies management controls
