Understanding AI: AI tools, training, and skills — Google AI Skip to main content Discover how AI can be helpful, from work to everyday life Explore products Get started Experience AI-first products Chat with Gemini Your personal, proactive AI assistant AI Mode Ask anything, any way, in Google Search NotebookLM Your research and thinking partner Flow Your AI creative studio Try AI features Ask Maps Google Maps Live conversations Gemini on Android Ask Photos Google Photos Help me write Google Workspace Browse with built-in AI Chrome Try our latest experiments Project Astra Your universal AI assistant Project Mariner Explore the future of in-browser agents Find more on Google Labs Build with Google AI Explore our full AI stack Start building Get started building with our next-gen AI models and tools Google AI Studio Build with our latest AI models Vertex AI A platform built for enterprise Gemini API Integrate our AI models into your apps Google Antigravity Our agentic development platform Discover models Build with cutting-edge Google DeepMind models Gemini Learn, build, and plan anything Nano Banana Create and edit detailed images Gemma Build responsible AI applications at scale Veo Generate cinematic video with audio Lyria Generate high fidelity music and audio Code with AI assistance Accelerate development with integrated AI code assistance Gemini CLI Colab Jules Gemini Code Assist Android Studio Chrome DevTools Tackling the most challenging problems in computer science Explore research Frontier AI Building the future of AI-powered products and scientific discovery Foundational ML Exploring the theory and application of ML in language, speech and more Health Transforming healthcare and medicine with AI Quantum AI Building best-in-class quantum computing Science Enabling scientific innovation in biology, chemistry, physics, and earth science Sustainability Driving sustainable innovation through technology Earth AI Taking action on planetary info We’re building and deploying AI responsibly Responsibility and safety Ensuring AI safety through proactive security, even against evolving threats Policy Our AI policy perspectives, priorities, and working alongside partners Building for everyone Working together to build AI that’s helpful for everyone We're committed to improving the lives of as many people as possible Why AI Boldly pursued, AI transforms lives globally when built and used responsibly Our AI Journey For over 20 years, Google has worked to make AI helpful for everyone AI Principles Our commitment to developing technology responsibly For organizations Our AI tools enable your organization to work smarter and make better decisions Learn AI Skills Learn essential AI skills through courses, certifications, and more Products Discover how AI can be helpful, from work to everyday life Explore products Get started Experience AI-first products Chat with Gemini Your personal, proactive AI assistant AI Mode Ask anything, any way, in Google Search NotebookLM Your research and thinking partner Flow Your AI creative studio Try AI features Ask Maps Google Maps Live conversations Gemini on Android Ask Photos Google Photos Help me write Google Workspace Browse with built-in AI Chrome Try our latest experiments Project Astra Your universal AI assistant Project Mariner Explore the future of in-browser agents Find more on Google Labs Build Build with Google AI Explore our full AI stack Start building Get started building with our next-gen AI models and tools Google AI Studio Build with our latest AI models Vertex AI A platform built for enterprise Gemini API Integrate our AI models into your apps Google Antigravity Our agentic development platform Discover models Build with cutting-edge Google DeepMind models Gemini Learn, build, and plan anything Nano Banana Create and edit detailed images Gemma Build responsible AI applications at scale Veo Generate cinematic video with audio Lyria Generate high fidelity music and audio Code with AI assistance Accelerate development with integrated AI code assistance Gemini CLI Colab Jules Gemini Code Assist Android Studio Chrome DevTools Research Tackling the most challenging problems in computer science Explore research Frontier AI Building the future of AI-powered products and scientific discovery Foundational ML Exploring the theory and application of ML in language, speech and more Health Transforming healthcare and medicine with AI Quantum AI Building best-in-class quantum computing Science Enabling scientific innovation in biology, chemistry, physics, and earth science Sustainability Driving sustainable innovation through technology Earth AI Taking action on planetary info Responsibility We’re building and deploying AI responsibly Responsibility and safety Ensuring AI safety through proactive security, even against evolving threats Policy Our AI policy perspectives, priorities, and working alongside partners Building for everyone Working together to build AI that’s helpful for everyone Societal impact About We're committed to improving the lives of as many people as possible Why AI Boldly pursued, AI transforms lives globally when built and used responsibly Our AI Journey For over 20 years, Google has worked to make AI helpful for everyone AI Principles Our commitment to developing technology responsibly For organizations Our AI tools enable your organization to work smarter and make better decisions Learn AI Skills Learn essential AI skills through courses, certifications, and more Try Gemini Google AI AI Google AI Learn about all our AI Google DeepMind Explore the frontier of AI Google Labs Try our AI experiments Google Research Explore our research Products and apps Gemini app Chat with Gemini Google AI Studio Build with our next-gen AI models Google Antigravity Our agentic development platform Products Build Research Responsibility Societal impact About Try Gemini AI SKILLS Learn essential AI skills We're building AI skills programs, trainings, and tools to address the specific needs of workers everywhere. Discover Google's courses and resources designed to help you succeed in an AI-driven world. Learn the basics Advance your skills Transform your business Explore on YouTube FAQs Learn AI basics Explore foundational concepts in artificial intelligence. Learn how AI works and how to effectively use it in your daily work. Slide 1 of 3 Introduction to Generative AI Learn generative AI basics in this short video course–including what it is, how it’s used, and how it differs from traditional machine learning. No charge Beginner Badge Learn more Google AI Essentials New to AI? Learn about AI capabilities and how they can assist, empower, and inspire you. Use generative AI tools to speed up daily tasks and develop new ideas and content. Beginner Certificate Learn more AI Power-Ups for Google Workspace Get better, faster results from Gemini in Google Workspace in this 15-minute course. Learn how to summarize emails, find information, and draft replies to manage your inbox more efficiently. No charge Beginner Badge Learn more New Get the AI skills employers are looking for How well do you know AI? With the Google AI Professional Certificate, go beyond the basics with 20+ hands-on activities designed to build your AI fluency. Enroll now and get three months of Google AI Pro on us ( terms apply ). Get started Slide 1 of 2 This is definitely one of the best AI training courses I've done. It covered the 'basics' in an easy to understand way, but didn't dwell on the basics for too long. I love that the majority of the course focused on actual business use cases. Brian Google AI Professional Certificate Graduate Google AI Professional Certificate I came into this course knowing very little about AI technology and this course provided me with a really solid foundation. I am looking forward to utilizing AI tools to help me with upcoming projects for work, as well as in my personal life. I highly recommend this course if you’re interested in learning about how AI can help you with a variety of work tasks. Candace P. Google AI Essentials Graduate Google AI Essentials Advance your AI Skills Take your AI knowledge to the next level. Apply AI skills to your work and learn how to build the next big thing. Explore developer resources Slide 1 of 3 Introduction to Large Language Models In this course, learn all about large language models (LLMs) and how to use prompt tuning to enhance LLM performance. No charge Intermediate Badge Learn more Introduction to AI Image Generation In this course, learn about diffusion models that underpin state-of-the-art image generation models on Google Cloud, including how to train and deploy them on Vertex AI. No charge Intermediate Badge Learn more Gemini and the Software Development Lifecycle Learn how to use Gemini—Google’s next-generation AI model—in the software development lifecycle to develop, test, deploy, and manage applications. No charge Intermediate Badge Learn more Transform your business with AI Equip your organization with essential AI skills to drive growth, scalability, and efficiency. Innovating with Google Cloud Artificial Intelligence This course provides leaders with an overview of how they can use Google products to transform their organization with AI and ML. Beginner Badge Learn more Virtual AI Courses, Led by Product Experts Upskill employees with remote or in-person AI courses led by Google-authorized instructors. Intermediate Virtual class Learn more Make AI Work for You This expert-led training is designed to help small business owners tackle real business problems, and will lead you through guided practice solving these challenges using Google AI tools. No charge Beginner Workshop Learn more Explore AI resources on YouTube Discover a curated collection of AI tutorials, explainers, and demos to deepen your understanding and build practical skills. Slide 1 of 3 Introduction to Artificial Intelligence Discover foundational AI concepts, such as machine learning (ML), and explore how AI works, including the rise of generative AI and how to perform tasks with it. Watch now Introduction to Responsible AI Learn about Google’s seven AI principles, a framework designed to guide users toward a safer and more ethical use of AI. Watch now A Developer’s Guide to LLMs Explore different AI model options, analyze pricing structures, and dive into essential features of large language models (LLMs). Watch now FAQs Why are AI skills important? Artificial intelligence (AI) is poised to reshape the way we work. Yet, many organizations don’t have the expertise they need to unlock AI’s full potential. Learning AI skills helps future-proof your career, increases your productivity, and opens up new opportunities. 85% of Google Cloud learners say that cloud learning resources have contributed to their goal of gaining expertise with generative AI tools and services. Meanwhile, 86% of decision makers learning from Google Cloud say it helps their organization stay ahead in AI and 81% said it helped them stay ahead of the competition*. *Google/Ipsos, Cloud Learning Services Market Pulse, Fielded Sept 17th - October 23rd 2024 (US, UK, FR, DE, IN, BR, MX, JP, AU/NZ) How do I know which Google AI course or credential is right for me? It depends on your current AI knowledge and your learning goals. New to AI? Start with introductory resources like Google AI Essentials or explore more courses on Google Skills . These will give you a solid foundation in AI concepts. Ready to dive deeper? Consider more specialized courses or certifications based on your specific interests or career goals. Google Skills offers AI courses and hands-on labs where you can earn Skill Badges —digital credentials to validate your abilities with Google Cloud products. What is the difference between a certificate and a certification? Certificates generally refer to a program focused on building practical skills in a specific area. Certificates often require less time and financial commitment than certifications. Examples include Google Career Certificates or Google Cloud Certificates , which focus on job-ready skills. Certifications, including Google Cloud Certifications typically involve a more rigorous process to validate technical expertise in a particular technology or domain. Certifications often require passing an exam and may demonstrate proficiency in specific tools or platforms. Where can I learn more about Google’s AI learning resources? Google offers a variety of resources to help you learn about and develop AI skills. Explore the full catalog on Google Skills , including AI-related courses and hands-on learning experiences with Google products. You can earn Skill Badges to demonstrate your proficiency in specific AI technologies or follow learning paths to learn how to approach AI use cases. Grow with Google provides practical training, tools, and resources to help you apply AI to your job, business, or classroom. The program features foundational courses like AI Essentials and Prompting Essentials, as well as integrated, field-specific AI training within its Google Career Certificates. To further support career development, the program offers interactive AI-powered tools like Career Dreamer to help you explore new job paths and Interview Warmup to assist with interview preparation. Do Google Cloud AI learning resources cost money? Google offers many learning resources to learn AI skills—some paid and some available at no charge to learners. The complementary resources on this page are marked with a “no charge” tag. You can also access a library of helpful learning content on YouTube , or find free courses for small business owners, students and educators on grow.google/ai . Join the Google Enterprise Agent Ready (GEAR) community to build AI skills with 35 learning credits to use on courses and hands-on labs in Google Skills —at no cost to you. These credits renew every month. You can also access our full catalog of learning content with a monthly subscription of $29 per month. For higher education, government, nonprofit and workforce development programs, Google Cloud offers a no-charge option that’s cohort-based and faculty-facilitated. You can learn more at g.co/edu/cloudready . Follow us Making AI helpful for everyone Products Discover how AI can be helpful, from work to everyday life For knowledge For creativity For productivity For students For experimenting Explore products Build Get started building with cutting-edge AI models and tools Start building Code with AI assistance Leverage frameworks and tools Build with Google AI Research Tackling the most challenging problems in computer science Health Science Sustainability Explore more research Responsibility We’re building and deploying AI responsibly Responsibility and safety Policy Building for everyone Social impact About We're committed to improving the lives of as many people as possible Why AI Our AI Journey AI Principles For organizations Learn AI Skills About Google Google Products Privacy Terms Cookies management controls
